Stephen the Matyr belonged to which group?
4
The Seven were called to represent the Grecian Jews when their widow's welfare were presumed to be overlooked
The 12 Apostles, replacing Judas Iscariot
The Sadducees
The Pharisees
The 7 Grecian/Hellenistic Jews
What bird did Noah send out of the ark first to investigate the condition of the earth?
1
Noah sent out a raven first which returned
A raven
A dove
An eagle
A hawk
Which god's prophets did Elijah mock on Mount Carmel?
4
Elijah mocked the prophets of Baal in a sacrifice "face-off" in the presence of Israel, claiming their god could not hear them as they were not loud enough or was on a journey.
Molech
Asherah
Dagon
Baal
Which city/s did God send Jonah to?
1
Jonah was sent to Nineveh to tell them of their destruction but after their repentance, God removed his wrath from the city
Nineveh
Sodom and Gommorah
Jerusalem
Tyre and Sidon
What did Jesus use to feed the "five thousand"
2
Jesus distributed the loaves and fish (which were not exhausted) first to the twelve, then to the people. This was also an example of how the word would be distributed - given to the leaders first then to the people
Consecrated bread from the temple
Five barley loaves and two small fish
Mana from Heaven
Fish from the net of Peter's fishing boat
Who succeeded Eli as judge of Israel?
1
After Eli's sons were found to be wicked, God condemned them and also Eli for protecting them. He then chose Samuel to lead Israel as the last judge before a king born of man was placed over Israel
Samuel
Saul
Elisha
David
Jesus quoted a prophet when speaking of John the Baptist. Who was that prophet?
4
Isaiah spoke of John the Baptist as one who would restore Israel or in other words arrange the bride(Israel) for the groom(Jesus)
Elisha
David
Elijah
Isaiah
Where were the disciples first called "Christians"?
2
The name given to the followers of The Christ was "Christians" or "lesser/mini Christs"
Iconium
Antioch
Jerusalem
Galilee
To which Church did The Spirit take to task for being "lukewarm/neither hot nor cold"?
1
To the believers in Laodicea, John was given instruction to rebuke them for not following the way whole-heartedly so they would repent and reach their potential
Laodicea
Philadelphia
Pergamum
Thyatira
Why did Cain murder his brother Abel?
3
Abel offered livestock as a sacrifice whilst Cain offered crops. God accepts a sacrifice of a being with blood, not plant life. Cain could have then offered a sacrifice of livestock to please God but instead chose to eliminate the one who already had His favor.
Abel was going to take his birthright
He was told by Satan to perform the murder
Because Abel's offering was accepted by God he became jealous and fell into sin
He wanted his brother's livestock
Which of the Plagues did God use to explicitly draw a distiction between the Egyptians and the Israelites?
2
The first few Plagues before the Plague of flies were to demonstrate God's power over the entire country and was then focused onto the Egyptians
The Plague on livestock
The Plague of flies
The Plague of hail
The Plague on the firstborn
How did Samson slay approximately a thousand Philistines outside the cave of Etam?
4
Samson killed the Philistines in retribution and then composed a poem detailing the events
Bare-handed
By lighting the tied tails of foxes on fire and sending it among them
With the thigh bone of a lion he killed
With the jawbone of a donkey
Which king was spoken of by the un-named man of God from Judah who prophesied that he would destroy the alter erected by Jeroboam?
1
The man of God of Judah spoke against the altar and prophesied that Josiah of the royal line of David would desecrate and destroy it. His words came to pass but the man of God himself was mauled by a lion after not following the explicit instructions given to him.
Josiah
Solomon
Jehosaphat
Hezekiah
What did Nebuchadnezzar embody in his dream when it was interpreted by Daniel?
3
D
A large statue of various materials
A beast with feathers and claws of a bird
A tree
A three-horned beast
What is considered as Jesus's first miraculous sign?
1
Jesus performed this miracle at a wedding he was invited to after Mary his mother sublty informed him that the wine had been finished. Though He told her that it was not time for him to begin this kind of work, he still obeyed her request as she had faith he could resolve the problem
Turning water into wine
The feeding of the five thousand
Filling the net of Peter with a miraculous amount of fish
Walking on water
What part of the body was James relating to the rudder of a ship?
2
James compared the rudder which, though small, is able to steer a large ship. Much like the tounge which can harm or heal
The heart
The tounge
The eyes
The ears
Which tribe of Israel did God anoint for his service?
1
The Levites were not given a vast area of land within a boundary as the other tribes were but cities within the other tribes. God was their inheritance as they did all the work required by God on Israel's behalf.
Levi
Judah
Ephraim
Reuben
What was Abraham's name before God changed it?
3
God changed his name from Abram(father) to Abraham(father of many) as he would be the descendant of a nation
Nahor
Adam
Abram
Abrahim
What was the name of the island where Paul was shipwrecked on his way to Rome?
2
Though the ship was destroyed, everyone on board were unharmed and swam or drifted on the shore of Malta
Tyre
Malta
Sidon
Ceres
Why did Nicodemus have to visit Jesus at night instead of during the day?
3
Those who followed Jesus were harshly treated by the Pharisees. They would most likely have been thrown out of the synagogue.
He had duties to perform during the day as a teacher in the synagogue
He was a Greek and could not visit the home of a Jew openly
He did not want the other Pharisees to condemn him by visiting Jesus openly
It was the Sabbath and he did not want to break it
To whom did Jesus refer to as the seed sown among thorns?
1
Jesus described that worrying serves no purpose and trusting in earthly riches that will not last is the same. He wants us to invest time advancing the kingdom of heaven rather than taking measures to reduce our concern's while on earth.
Those who hear the word but are "unfruitful"
Those who hear the word but fall away upon persecution because of the word
Those who have the word stolen from among them by the evil one
Those who accept the word but surround themselves with wicked people
What answer did the Pharisees give Jesus when asked where John's Baptism came from?
3
The Pharisees were given two choices: Heaven or the earth. They could not answer to their beliefs that is was from earth as they were afraid that the authority Jesus and John had as God's chosen prophets would incite the people listening to stone the Pharisees. They also could not admit that it was from Heaven as acknowledging it would mean giving up a way of life that was they were too comfortable with.
From the earth as John was born of man
They remained silent
We do not know
From Heaven
How many children did Israel's have by his wife Rachel?
1
Joseph was Rachel's firstborn. Benjamin was born to her but she died after his birth.
Joseph and Benjamin
Perez and Uzziah
Judah, Benjamin and Joseph
Simeon and Levi


Who supplemented Apollos in his ministry?
2
Up until this point Apollos only knew the baptism of John, though he was still able to preach about Jesus accurately from just the Law and the prophets
Peter and John
Priscilla and Aquila
Paul and Barnabas
Silas and Timothy

What was the passover lamb to be eaten with?
2
In addition to this, the lamb was not to be kept for the next day but burned.
Wine in new wineskins
Bitter herbs and bread made without yeast
Mana from heaven
Nothing

How many unclean spririts did Jesus remove from Mary Magdelene?
2
The number removed may likely mean that all the unclean spirits were removed, as the number seven represents completion or the complete set as a quantifiable measure
One
Seven
Three
Ten

Where did Joseph take Mary and the baby Jesus when he was warned about Herod's intent to kill Jesus?
4
As instructed by the angel, they escaped to Egypt and returned after Herod's death as foretold by the prophets
Bethlehem
Capernaum
Nazereth
Egypt
